# FRUGIVORY CAMTRAP

This is a public repository for the data and code included in the data paper:
Title: "FRUGIVORY CAMTRAPS: A dataset of frugivory interactions recorded with camera traps"

The goal of donana-frugivory-camtrap repository is to contain and facilitate access to the data, code and metadata associated to the datapaper published in Ecology. 

The folder nemed "dataset_YYYY_mm_dd" contains the complete dataset in csv format. The datset will be updated with new field data when available and the folder will contain the date for the last version. The folder named "code" contains a toy dataset and code for ilustrating the assembling process for this dataset. In this folder you can find the raw data for running. In the code folder you will also find the code for creating the figures contained in the Metadata section of the manuscript.   

Authors:
Pablo Villalva1, Gemma Calvo1, Pablo Homet1, Jorge Isla1, Eva Moracho1, Elena Quintero1, Blanca Arroyo-Correa1, Francisco Rodríguez-Sánchez2, Irene Mendoza1, Pedro Jordano1,2 
Author Affiliations:
1, Integrative Ecology Group. Estación Biológica de Doñana, CSIC. Sevilla, Spain.
2, Dept. Biología Vegetal y Ecología, Universidad de Sevilla, Sevilla, Spain.

Abstract:
Ecological interactions are a key component of biodiversity, essential for understanding ecosystem services and functioning. Recording and quantifying ecological interactions is challenging, frequently requiring complex logistics and substantial effort in the field. Camera traps are routinely used in ecology for various applications and have proven to be an excellent method for passive and non-invasive sampling of plant-animal interactions. We implemented a standardized camera trap protocol to monitor frugivory interactions between fleshy-fruited plant species and vertebrate frugivores in Doñana National Park, SW Spain. The central objective was to inventory the diversity of plant-animal ecological interactions providing seed dispersal services. We recorded pairwise interactions between plant individuals and vertebrate frugivore species from 2018 to 2023, reporting both qualitative information (presence-absence of the interaction) and quantitative data (frequency of visits). Each record in the dataset contains information of a visit by an individual animal to an individual plant, resulting in any form of fleshy-fruit use and provides information on visitation phenology, visit length and feeding behavior. The dataset presented here includes 10,659 frugivory interactions for 59 vertebrate species (46 birds, 13 mammals) recorded on 339 plant individuals from 13 different plant species which dominate the fleshy-fruited plant assemblage in the Doñana National Park. The most recorded animal species consuming fruits and playing a legitimate seed dispersal role was Curruca melanocephala (1678 records) among birds and Vulpes vulpes among mammals (751 records). On the other hand, Cervus elaphus was the most recorded mammal species (1558 records), but it is a fruit consumer with a marginal role as legitimate seed disperser. Avian frugivores, particularly those from the Sylviidae and Turdidae families, are widespread in the region playing a crucial role in maintaining the dispersal service for the fleshy-fruited plant populations in the area. The dataset offers highly versatile quantitative information that can be used to investigate frugivory from the highest resolution scale; the interaction event between pairs of individuals. In addition, information can be extracted about the timing of interactions of animals and plants (their phenological couplings), activity periods of the animals, behavior during the events and preferences for individual plants within populations.
